---
layout: post
title: "HW20: Chapter 20"
date: 2019-11-18
---

## Exercises

### 20.10
#### Q. You work for a software company that has developed a system that provides information about consumers and that is used within a SoS by a number of other retail businesses. They pay you for services used. Discuss the ethics of changing the system interfaces without notice to coerce users into paying higher charges. Consider this question from the point of view of the company’s employees, customers, and shareholders.

#### Employee's point of view

The employees of this company likely have a mixed opinion on this prospect. On one hand, if the implementation is successful, the system may provide a higher revenue, which has the potential for bonuses and raises for the employees. On the other hand, employees likely have their own moral views on this subject, and may be adverse to implementing these changes since they consider it an unfaithful practice. However, dissenting in the company will make upper management upset and can endanger their employment.

#### Customer's point of view

This point of view can be further divided into the retail businesses, and these businesses' employees.

***Retail businesses***

The opinion of the retail business probably depends on the implementation of this interface change. Assuming the interface is coercing customers to pay more for their produts (and not a competitor) they will likely enjoy the extra revenue. However, they need to be conscious of their customers' morale and the public image of their customer, though such a system probably plays a minor role.

***Retail custoemrs***

Customers who use this system as an end user will undoubtedly dislike it. Customers are very conscious of how much they spend, and an interface that intrusively asks for more money is annoying and unwwanted, and if the system is particularly aggressive, lead to complaints for the retail businesses by their customers

#### Shareholder's point of view

A shareholder point of view is very simple: they like money. If a product can be made to make more money, they will be pleased, and so such an interface change would be highly encouraged by them.