---
layout: post
title: "HW1: Chapter 1"
date: 2019-08-21
category: "362"
---

## Exercises

### 1.3: What are the four important attributes that all professional software should possess? Suggest four other attributes that may sometimes be significant.
Professional software should be:
1. Maintainable
2. Dependable and secure
3. Efficient
4. Acceptable to the users for which it is deisgned
On top of these four, well-designed software should also be easy to read by others, cost-effective to build and maintain,

### 1.8: Discuss whether professional enineers should be licensed in the same way as doctors or lawyers
In many ways, it would be beneficial if software engineers required licenses. Much of their work requires a specific amount of competence to complete, and often require confidentiality from the company that develops it, or even security clearance by the government.  There are also a number of ethical issues regarding stealing and/or illegaly redistributing intellectual property, or deploying unfinished or undertested software in sensitive systems (i.e. safety systems; insulin pumps).

    
### 1.9: For each of the clauses in the ACM/IEEE Code of Ethics shown in Figure 1.4, propose an appropriate example that illustrates that clause.
* Public - 
* Client and Employer - 
* Product - 
* Judgement - 
* Management - 
* Profession - 
* Colleagues - 
      
### 1.10: To help counter terrorism, many countries are planning or have developed computer systems that track large numbers of their citizens and their actions. Clearly, this has privacy implications. Discuss the ethics of working on the development of this type of system.
Tracking an entire body of people and their every action, on paper, sounds incredibly creepy.  Knowing every action of every person gives vibes of an Orwellian dystopia.  While I am not a fan of the practice, it does have positive effects (like traffic telemetry). It also does exactly what it is designed to do, by identifying bad actors before especially bad incidents happen? Is it ethical? Perhaps not.  But bad actors likely don't care and implement these tracking systems anyway, so why stop governments and corporations like Google from doing so altogether?  In short: Allow the pracice, but regulate it where possible.
