---
layout: post
title: "HW16: Chapter 9"
date: 2019-10-16
---

## Exercises

### 9.8
#### Q. Briefly describe the three main types of software maintenance. Why is it sometimes difficult to distinguish between them?

There are three main types of software maintenance - bug fixing, modifying software for new environments, and implementing new or changed requirements. All three of them require modifying the existing code, often in the same manner or with similar results of bugs being fixed. What separates them is the goals they aim to achieve, which is not normally visible from an outside perspective.
- Bug fixing focuses on fixing behavior and making the software stable. This is usually long-term maintenance.
- Modifying software for new environments may look like bug fixing, since moving the software into said new environment often cuases issues that need to be addressed for it to function properly. Typically the software is relatively unchanged in its former environment, however.
- New or changed requirements, such as feature requests, can often lead to introducing new bugs or even fixing old ones. This is usually consequential to the new requiremnets and have little to do with their actual goal.

### 9.10
#### Q. Do software engineers have a professional responsibility to develop code that can be easily maintained even if their employer does not explicitly request it?

A testing-oriented software engineer typically produces maintainable software as a consequence of their practices.