---
layout: post
title: "HW4: Chapters 11 & 12"
date: 2019-08-28
---

## Exercises

### 11.4

#### What is the common characteristic of all architectural styles that are geared to supporting software fault tolerance?

  Fault tolerant systems are all designed to prevent or handle some failure of the system. Most tend to have some form of hardware redundancy, but all employ a form of software diversity. Multiple versions of software are given the same input to process, then the subsequent output is compared between the systems, and any differences reported.


### 11.7

#### It has been suggested that the control software for a radiation therapy machine, used to treat patients of cancer, should be implemented using N-version programming. Comment on whether or not you think this is a good suggestion.

Radiation therapy is a very sensitive practice where a controlled amount of radiation is used in an attempt to kill malignant cells in a patient's body. N-version programming would allow multiple systems to facilitate the radiation and test the results of the therapy on the patient. This would allow for a stronger confidence in the dosage of the radiation and in in reading the results. However, considering how complex radiation therapy is, different versions would likely be very costly to develop with minimal gains. I consider this a implementation a good suggestion, but not one without fault.


### 11.9

#### Explain why you should explicitly handle all exceptions in a system that is intended to have a high level of availability.
When a system is available to a wide range of users, it will inevitably run into a wide range of user inputs, which will often lead to a wide range of errors, whether user- or otherwise. Exception handling is meant to take those errors and prevent them from stalling or harming the system, which becomes exponentially more important as the system is more available. Handling exceptions explicitly give developers more control over what happens when a user enters an invalid input, allows more edge cases to be accounted for in run-time, and generally keeps the system more reliable. Not all exceptions may obviously happen during run-time, but having any unlikely exceptions lead to a safe state of the system is one way to cover a large number of unforeseen problems. Test as many cases as possible so these exceptions can be accounted for.

### 12.5
#### A train protection system automatically applies the brakes of a train if the speed limit for a segment of track is exceeded, or if the train enters a track segment that is currently signaled with a red light (i.e., the segment should not be entered). There are two critical-safety requirements for this train protection system:
#### - The train shall not enter a segment of track that is signaled with a red light.
#### - The train shall not exceed the specified speed limit for a section of track.
#### Assuming that the signal status and the speed limit for the track segment are transmitted to on-board software on the train before it enters the track segment, propose five possible functional system requirements for the onboard software that may be generated from system safety requirements.

1. If the train is at the specified speed limit, it shall maintain that speed.
2. The train shall break if it exceeds the specified speed limit. 
3. The train shall break a certain distance before the segment of track with a signaled red light.
4. Should the breaks of the train fail, the engine of the train shall turn off.
5. Should the breaks of the train fail, the train shall go wooo woooo.