---
layout: post
title: "HW15: Chapter 15"
date: 2019-10-15
category: "362"
---

## Exercise

### 15.10
#### Q: The reuse of software raises a number of copyright and intellectual property issues. If a customer pays a software contractor to develop a system, who has the right to reuse the developed code? Does the software contractor have the right to use that code as a basis for a generic component? What payment mechanisms might be used to reimburse providers of reusable components? Discuss these issues and other ethical issues associated with the reuse of software.

Reuse of software is useful for various reasons, but often times software as associated copyrights, patents, associated restrictions with how the software is used, shared, implemented, and et cetera. One piece of software may be leased by a company for reuse as a component in other projects, but require royalties and don't give access to the source code. Maybe this software is updated and maintained by its own developer, but it is otherwise a black box to anyone leasing it, which makes testing for bugs difficult, if not impossiblem in some cases. Examples of such softwares include rendering engines like Unity or Unreal.

Additional problems may arise later on as well, should support for the thrid party component die off, or worse, the developing company cease to exist. Without updates from the developer, and without the source code to look at and maintain in house, the project team might be forced to either reverse-engineer and build the component from scratch, or to search for an alternative component elsewhere, which takes time and resources from the team that could be spent elsewhere.