---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 5"
date: 2021-04-19
category: "462"
---

*This was originally assigned for Marth 18th.*

<br/>

For this post we had to read Chapter 5 of *Client-Centered Sofware Development: The CO-FOSS Approach*, by Allen B. Tucker.

This particular chapter focuses on "Domain Class development." In this instance the term *domain* refers to a set of objects that the class definition maps to, similar to in mathematics. This way of thinking about classes is especially helpful when creating code that will coincide with a database, where a single row of a dataset would map to a single object of that dataset's corresponding class.

### Coding the Domain Class

When developing these domain classes, the book says to consider reusing and extending existing classes from legacy code. For example, if an existing project already has a "Person" class with most required fields, such as name, address, phone number, and so on, it may be faster and easier to reuse that class and extend it with any additional fields specific to your project's need.

Admittedly, I am pretty bad about this, since I have a habit of creating my own classes for whatever project I am working on, without asking if it had already been made before. I am hoping that reusing code will become easier with experience and exposure. I generally try not to use code that I do not fully understand, but as I get more used to using external APIs (such as with Android), this is becoming less of a concern.

Of course, sometimes coding from scratch *is* the correct choice, simply because data is often unique. Regardless of if it is fresh or reused, every domain class should have a constructor, a set of instance variables, and getters for those variables.

### Test Case Design

This section discusses creating unit tests for the domain classes. It talks about adding setters to certain instance variables to allow testing, and discusses a number of testing frameworks to choose from. I personally went over unit testing in great detail in CSCI 362 - Software Engineering, which I already blogged about in detail, so I will skim over this part. Test things. Test the expected and the unexpected. And test them often.

### Debugging and Refactoring

Like testing, this is also a very familiar topic. Bugs occur in software quite often. Preferably, these bugs can be found with our unit tests, but many are not, and instead are found by the client/user. Bugs can be reported to trackers such as GitHub's issue tracker, then from there, developers can work on fixing them.

Testing code can only tell us if there is a bug. By contrast, Debugging code is the process of identifying at which point in the code the bug occurs. Once it is identified, it may be as simple as changing a few lines of code, but occasionally, refactoring the code may be beneficial, or even required.

Refactoring is the process of rewriting sections of code so that it is restructured to be either more readable or flexible, without losing any base functionality. The goal of refactoring if to make code easier to work with, thus bugs easier to fix, or avoid altogether when adding new features.
