---
layout: post
title: "Chapter 6"
date: 2021-04-20
category: "462"
---

*This was originally assigned for Marth 25th.*

<br/>

For this post we had to read Chapter 6 of *Client-Centered Sofware Development: The CO-FOSS Approach*, by Allen B. Tucker.

This chapter focuses on "Database Development" and the concepts of relational databases. The book admits right away that this chapter does not cover databases in great detail, and refers readers to do more research on the topic, including taking a formal class on the subject. Luckily I have already done this.

### Database Principles

I couldn't really word it any better than the book does.

> "A *database* is a collection of data organized in a particular way for efficient storage and retrieval of information. Databases can be simple, as in a collection of flat files, or more complex, as in a relational database, a distributed database, or a hierarchical database."

The chapter goes on to describe relational databases, SQL, and even recommends several different SQL implementations for different languages, which is pretty convenient. It goes on to describe naming conventions and gives an example of some dataset names and one dataset's attributes, and how those attributes relate to a domain class.

Little information in this section is new to me, and since these concepts are frankly difficult to summarize, I will not go into much more detail.

### Database Access

This secion is probably the more intersting one, as it describes how to connect a database to a program's code, something that was not really covered in my prior classes. It lists the following examples of database extensions:

| Language | MySQL | PostgreSQL | SQLite |
|-|-|-|-|
| Java | MySQL Connector/J | PL/Java | SQSLte Java |
| PHP | MySQLi | PostgreSQL | SQLite |
| Python | MySQLdb | PL/Python | PySQLite |
| Ruby | ruby-mysql | ruby pg | sqlite3 |

The chapter then uses MySQLi and PHP code as an example for how to connect to a database, create tables, and make queries. Most of the examples are simply using the API correctly, which does most of the work for the developer, provided they understand SQL.

Coincidentally, I have recently used an Android implementation of SQL for my Android dev class, called RoomDatabase, which creates a local SQL server and lets developers define tables and their attributes with Java class definitions, like the domain classes described in chapter 5. It also defines SQL queries within a companion object called a DAO, or Data Access Object. It is very different from what we learned in Database Concepts.

<br/>

The rest of the chapter talks about testing the database and tracking issues with it, which largely parrots what it tralked about in chapter 5, just in a different context. I have very little to add to the topic that has not already been said.
